# Functions in Python

### What is a Function
* It's process of executing a task
* It can accept an input and return an output
* In general, we can hide the details of any computation by defining a function. A function definition requires a name, a group of parameters, and a body. It may also explicitly return a value.

### Why Use Functions
* Stay DontRepeatYourself **DRY** 
* Clean Code no duplication
* They can help you refactor
* They help us organize things better

### Syntax
* snakecase
```Python
def function():
    #Here goes everything(block of code)
```

### Return values from functions
* It exits the function
* Outputs whatever is placed after a return
* the return keyword needs to be indented correctly
```Python
def square_of_two():
    return 2**2

```

### Parameters in the Functions

```Python
def square(num):
    return num**2
# These parameters only exists in the functions
def add(a,b):
    return a+b    
#Parameters should be named in a better way that makes sense
```

### Parameters VS Arguements
* Parameter is in the declaration of the function
* Arguement is what we pass into the function

```Python
def multiply(a,b):
    return a * b
print(multiply(1,5))
# a & b are parameters
# 1 & 5 are arguements
# Order matters
```

### Default Parameters
* We can also set the default values in the functions

```Python
def square(num,power=2):
    return num **power
#Even if we dont pass a value for the power it will retain its default value 2
```
* Default parameters can help you save from errors
* It makes our code more flexible
* Default Parameters can be any values we can also pass functions inside of a function

### Passing Functions inside of function
- Arguments can be passed as non-keyword (positional) arguments (e.g. a) or keyword arguments (e.g. b=2 and c=10).
- Using keyword arguements we can alter the order e.g. (c=10, b=2, a=1)
```Python
def volume(a, b, c):
    return a * b * c
 
print(volume(1, b=2, c=10))
```

### Scopes
* There are rules where are variables can be accessed
* Whenever we define a variable inside of a function it will be part of the function

```Python
x = 2
def add_two(num):
    return x+num
#In this example the x variable is available outside the function

def add_three(num):
    y = 3
    return num+y
#In this example the y is just the part of the function and it cannot be accessed from outside    
```

* Global scope
* A variable that is defined outside of the function it is global
* If we want to manipulate a variable that is not defined inside of the local scope we use the keyword **global**.

```Python
total = 0
def increment():
    global total
    total +=1
    return total
print(increment())
```

* **non local** keyword 

## Documenting Functions Better
- Python documentation strings (or docstrings __doc__) provide a convenient way of associating documentation with Python modules, functions, classes, and methods.
- It’s specified in source code that is used, like a comment, to document a specific segment of code. Unlike conventional source code comments, the docstring should describe what the function does, not how.
- Declaring Docstrings: The docstrings are declared using ”’triple single quotes”’ or “””triple double quotes””” just below the class, method or function declaration. All functions should have a docstring.
- Accessing Docstrings: The docstrings can be accessed using the __doc__ method of the object or using the help function.
- The doc string line should begin with a capital letter and end with a period.
- The first line should be a short description.
- If there are more lines in the documentation string, the second line should be blank, visually separating the summary from the rest of the description.
- The following lines should be one or more paragraphs describing the object’s calling conventions, its side effects, etc.
The below examples demonstrates how to declare and access a docstring.
```Python
print("Using __doc__:")
print(my_function.__doc__)
  
print("Using help:")
help(my_function)
"""
```Python
Using __doc__:
Demonstrates triple double quotes
    docstrings and does nothing really.
Using help:
Help on function my_function in module __main__:

my_function()
    Demonstrates triple double quotes
    docstrings and does nothing really.
```

## ** and * Operators in the Functions

*   * star operator allow us to pass in as much parameters we can and it gathers them as a tuple 
*   The standard keyword is **args but you call it whatever you like.

```Python3
# Lets say we want to add 5 numbers we will write a function and pass 5 parameters
def add(num1,num2,num3,num4,num5):
    return num1+num2+num3+num4+num5
print(add(1,2,3,4,5))

#But what if we want to add 3 number with the same function then we have pass default values and it gets messy and takes a long time so therefore we use *args for function.

def addition(*args):
    total = 0
    for num in args:
        total+=num
    return total
#This is better function now
#args parameter will say the input in the tuple
```

```Python3
# **kwargs parameter this will save the arguements passed into a dictionary 
# **kwargs is standard keyword used in the community
def color(**kwargs):
    for person,color in kwargs.item():
        print(f"{person}'s favorite color is {color}")

```


## Parameter Odering

1) Parameters
2) **args
3) Default Parameters
4) **kwargs

```Python
def odering(a,b,**args,name='john',**kwargs):
    return [a,b,**args,name='john',**kwargs]
```

## List Unpacking

* Passing *values* to unpack the tuples and pass them as arguements in the function

```python3
def addition(*args):
    total = 0
    for num in args:
        total+=num
    return total
x = [1,2,3,4]
# Now we will pass the list inside of the function

print(addition(*x))
```
